most people know that a sure sign they
can cross the road
is the little lit up green man right
well
not in japan there you should wait for a
green
rabbit called miffy this bunny is a
creation of dick bruna
a dutch author of children's books how
did this rabbit make it to japan
the answer is simple it looks very much
like the hello kitty
the japanese are in love with ever tried
those amazing head massagers that are
said to reduce stress and rid you of
headaches
cool huh but in japan you can get a lazy
and much more creative alternative to
this advice
it's electric and looks like a big
multicolored
octopus wow give me two
number three you're probably used to
sitting on a chair
when visiting a bar or a cafe right
you might ask me what are you talking
about what else am i supposed to sit on
well in japan cafes chairs look more
like
low comfortable armchairs and if you try
hard enough
you can even lie on one of them such
pieces of furniture are called izakaya
which is also the name of the informal
japanese pubs where you can find them
in japan they grow square watermelons
nope it's not a slip of the tongue that
would have been
square watermelon in kagawa prefecture
they produce a couple hundred square
watermelons a year
these watermelons aren't genetically
modified or anything like that
it's just that such a shape makes it
easier to deliver the fruit to retailers
unfortunately most square watermelons
get harvested before they're ripe
and therefore they're not meant for
eating right away
but if you decide to get one its cost
will be
impressive about 15 to 20 bucks
pringles have been incredibly popular
all over the world for decades
however when you buy pringles in japan
you don't get a tube of potato chips
you get noodles yup pringles is a noodle
brand
and the japanese eat this ramen very
often
usually a coffee machine is a simple
thing several buttons for choosing a
drink to your liking and standard paper
cups
in japan however a coffee machine is so
much more first there's a service that
lets you order your coffee in a special
app
and pick it up in the most conveniently
located store
at a particular time but on top of that
you get your drink not in a plastic or
paper cup
but in a bottle that can be customized
with the help of multi-colored tags
in japan traditional homes are very
minimalistic
in the past they used to have mud or
clay walls with paper sliding doors
that allow to make one big room out of
two smaller ones for special occasions
today japanese mostly live in small
apartments
but many prefer to stick to traditions
sleeping on the floor on a futon
a simple bed that can be rolled and
tucked away when not needed
there's also a great japanese invention
to make you warm
and never want to leave home kotatsu
it's basically a big and wide blanket
covering a low table frame
and the table top is laid over it
there's a heat source in the middle
usually electric and built into the
table this way
you could lie cozily under the blanket
and have your tea
right in front of you in japan there are
generally no
names for streets the whole city is
divided into blocks
each with a number it might seem
puzzling at first glance
but it's actually easier to find the
block you're looking for
the same system exists in korea if
you're in japan
and some mysterious man in a uniform
starts stuffing you and everyone else
into the train
don't worry it's totally normal and this
guy's just doing his job
he's the stuffer and you're the stuffee
[Music]
if you ever go in a first aid in japan
or korea
don't be surprised if the person across
the table asks what's your blood type
they believe blood type and personality
are directly connected
so they have no problem asking somebody
about it
you can even buy products specifically
for your type and dating someone with a
compatible blood type is preferred
hey don't be negative it's what they do
all japanese high-speed trains have an
automatic emergency brake system
that comes into action in case of an
earthquake picture this
at the first signs of an earthquake the
central control system which connects
all the trains
all over the country freezes every
single one in its tracks
in japan there's a profession that
probably doesn't exist anywhere else in
the world
that's the pusher no this person doesn't
push the train to help it speed up
pushers also called attendants help
passengers get into crowded rail cars
wow what a job the world's busiest train
station
is shinjuku which has more than 3.6
million visitors
not a month or a week a day this place
is a baffling maze of underground
tunnels
where even the most seasoned locals
regularly get lost
in 2016 the east japan railway designed
a new single purpose app
that can help passengers get around
shinjuku station
the longest train that runs upside down
is also in japan
to see this wonder you have to travel an
hour outside of tokyo
where you'll find yourself in a beachy
prefecture called
chiba the chiba monorail system has a
weird retro futuristic look
the train itself hangs from the rails
and travels along the 9.4 mile long
track
it makes the chiba monorail the longest
suspended rail system on the planet
japanese people are really really fond
of their trains
do you want proof how about this there
is so much
trained fandom in the country that train
lovers separate into numerous groups
from those whose hobby is to walk around
train stations to those who can't live
without trained lunch boxes
a lot of apartment buildings in tokyo
have a strict no pet policy
but that's not a problem now that their
furry friends can live at the workplace
full-time
and for those who already have a cat or
two at home they're also allowed to
bring their pets to work
hey it's kind of a win-win for both
humans and their new feline co-workers
oh and of course the company too since
happy employees mean
better output so i guess it's a
win-win-win
the workers love the policy and some
have even adopted more than one rescue
kitty
these furry friends now roam around in a
safe environment
where they're loved and cared for every
day and how can you be stressed with so
much cuteness going on
now don't worry dog lovers there are
companies that have an open door policy
for pooches too
some major online retailers like amazon
and etsy
are among the businesses that allow
their employees to bring their dogs to
work
it has to be easier to get work done
with your best buds sleeping by your
side
and lunch breaks can also be used for
playtime again
it totally works out for everybody dogs
are more than happy to spend the whole
day with their favorite human getting
lots of belly rubs
employees are happier and less stressed
out meaning they're more productive
so basically business is good when there
are pets in the office
water savings sinks they're located
right over the toilet tanks
the idea is simple first you wash your
hands over the sink
then the sink water goes straight into
the toilet tank and finally you flush
the toilet when you've done your
business
so you save water by using it twice
aren't you glad they don't do it the
other way
strange mayo no japanese mayo doesn't
have any special recipe or ingredient
but they don't eat it with salads meat
or sandwiches
in japan people usually use it as a
topping for ice cream or on pancakes
a chocolate sundae with mayo nothing
better
[Music]
naps at work in japanese culture dozing
off at the workplace or
in a murray is considered a sign of
being a hard-working person who's very
committed to their job
that's why in a murray is so common and
no one thinks it's a bad thing
some people even fake it
world's shortest escalator you can find
it in the basement of moore's department
store
which is located in the city of kawasaki
the escalator has only
five steps and is only 33 inches tall
well that's one small step for a man
okay canned food restaurant
eating canned food may not sound like a
delicious treat for you
but there's a whole chain of restaurants
all over the country
where they serve only canned food
they're pretty popular
since clients can choose from 300
varieties of food from
all across the world doll village
the village of nagoro used to have a
population of 300 people
but less than 40 residents live there
now a local artist
tsukumi ayano made over 300 life-size
dolls
most of which look like former residents
and they're located in various states of
action
for example there's a whole classroom
over them in the village school that was
closed a while ago
no fours it's common for japanese
culture to avoid the number four
because it's considered to be very
unlucky that's why some buildings don't
have a fourth floor
stores don't sell a set of cutlery for
four and the number of guests to some
event
can't be four blue
traffic light they use a blue color
instead of green
for traffic lights the reason for that
hides in their language
historically there was only one word for
both colors
when traffic lights first appeared in
the country they were as green as
anywhere else
but that green color was still called
blue to make things right
the government decided to use the bluish
shade of green
possible okay
[Music]
cleaning classes japanese kids learn how
to clean in many schools
because it's a part of their education
they mop their classrooms and hallways
do dusting and even clean the bathrooms
teachers believe it's a great way to
raise responsible citizens
foot bath train take the tudoy tourist
train to get the most
comfortable sightseeing experience this
train has
foot baths built of aromatic cypress
wood and filled with warm spring water
that can soothe the pain in your joints
so you can soak your feet and enjoy
beautiful views at the same time
while traveling from nagoya to yunoyama
onsen
what is considered polite in japan may
sometimes surprise foreigners though
for example slurping your noodles with
gusto
is a way to show your appreciation to
the cook so
don't restrain yourself
avoid walking down the street with your
food however it's not exactly rude today
but it's still not very classic
don't be surprised when you see the
japanese standing right at the spot
where they bought some treat
and eating it they just don't want to
walk with it
it's also considered impolite to talk on
your phone in a confined public space
such as public transport great idea
shall i repeat that one there you're
expected to put your phone in your bag
or pocket
turn off the sound and only answer it if
it's urgent
and even then you should keep your voice
down you don't want dirty looks from the
locals do you
well you'll probably find it next to
impossible to talk on the phone on a
subway train in japan
anyways this is especially true for
tokyo
where there are special people called
pushers on many stations
they do exactly what their name implies
pushing people
into the train cars try pulling out your
phone when you're pinned to the wall
back to work issues if you ever find
yourself in a japanese restaurant
don't even think about tipping your
waiter it's considered rude
and the reason is simple they do their
job and they do it well
because it's an honor if you give them a
tip
you offend them by assuming they do it
for extra cash
you sporting tattoos then japanese
public baths are off limits for you
sorry tattoos are considered ugly and
associated with yakuza
or organized japanese criminal gangs so
no one will allow you
entry to a public bath without them at
least covered
recently though this has changed in many
baths because japan
is trying to be more open to tourists
slippers
are a real thing in all japanese homes
and in many establishments when entering
someone's home
you'll be offered a pair so make sure
you always take your shoes off
if no slippers are offered you should
still leave your shoes outside
cleanliness is a virtue you know make
sure you wear socks without any halls
toilets in japan like their gadgets are
technologically advanced and
user-friendly
even the simpler ones still have
built-in sinks on the tank and heated
seats
some public restrooms use a system that
shows you which stalls are vacant or
occupied
and the most high-tech super toilets are
like a swiss army knife
with all kinds of buttons that raise or
lower the seat
play some white noise background music
and of course
send a spray of water to clean the user
up oh
and they've been using these things for
over 35 years
so yeah each year the japanese village
of inca date
transforms rice paddy fields into large
scale works of art
known as tonbo art this tradition
started in 1993
with the purpose of reviving the
region's dwindling economy
it became and remains a huge success
with hundreds of
thousands of spectators visiting the
place to personally witness these
incredible masterpieces
they have a different theme each year
like japanese folklore
anime and iconic figures from movies all
made in exquisite detail using
10 colorful strains of rice plant
varieties
the japanese love everything that's cute
or kawaii as they call it
like cats and anime characters with
their large adorable eyes
as for their pooches the latest craze in
japan
is to groom their dogs into perfectly
trimmed cubes
it isn't just in japan but it's
neighboring countries as well
the japanese must have a thing for cubes
since they also do it to their favorite
summer fruit
watermelons in japan they take
cultivating melons pretty seriously
you won't only see pricey cube-shaped
watermelons but also ones in a heart and
pyramid shape
there are even human-faced watermelons
complete with eyes
a nose and a mouth as for one of japan's
most iconic characters
hello kitty even has her face on a melon
to top it off
these hello kitty branded melons are
priced at 69
a hundred years ago japan was a
traditional agricultural country
nothing like how we know it now no
robots
how did it manage to become the most
technology savvy country
with a developed economy and one of the
highest living standards
well one of the reasons is the high
financial competence of the japanese
themselves
they're experts in personal finance they
use kakebo
which means they don't buy that third
handbag in two months
and manage to save up to 35 percent of
their income sound good
then be ready to take notes cacabo
translates to household account book
it's a notebook where you write down
your
income and expenses long before any
financial apps or digital tables
appeared
the japanese had this system of writing
up a budget
and it keeps working today the idea of
this saving tool
is to track how much you earned and
spend in detail
its final goal is to increase your
savings
look simple it is no apps no technology
no tricky calculations that's the point
you rule out everything that's not
necessary and focus on your habits and
decisions
this is how fumiko chiba the author of
the book kakebo
the japanese art of budgeting saving
money explains the efficiency of the
method
kakebo appeared in 1904 and grew popular
thanks to the first woman journalist in
japan hani motoko
who sold it to a wide audience chiba
says that even though japan
is still a traditional country in many
ways kakabo gave women freedom and
control over financial decisions
dozens of books magazines and articles
devoted to cocaibo
are published in the country every year
the cable fans know that reasonable
budgeting helps you save money
instead of thinking about things that
you can't afford you switch your
attention to what's
important and what you can spend your
money on
cocaibo is based on four main questions
one
how much money do you have two how much
would you like to save
three how much do you spend four
how can you make things better to draw
up a cacabo style budget
you'll need two notebooks a big one and
a small one
you can buy special kakebo journals but
any kind will work
you use the big one to write down your
income and plan expenses and savings
as for the small one you'll be carrying
it around with you to record
all the expenses in real time so you
don't forget a single cent